
=head1 How to set up an otter server

This document describes how to set up an otter
server with its pipeline database and with the
B<lace> (acedb) annotation front end.  ("lace"
stands for "local acedb" - most of the data
needed for annotation is loaded into an acedb
database on the local filesystem.)

=head2 Overview

The data in a complete otter/lace system is
contained in two mysql databases.  The B<otter>
database contains the manual gene annotations,
and the B<pipeline> database contains the result
of automated database searches and gene
predictions.  Both of these databases are
extensions of the B<Ensembl> database schema.

The otter server (B<otter_srv>) is a HTTP based
server written in Perl.  It services requests for
regions of chromosomes, returning the data as
XML.  The otter lace client transforms the XML
data into acedb format data, provides a Perl/Tk
based interface that makes it easier for the
annotator to create genes, and drives a copy of
B<zmap>.

=head2 Software neeeded

=over 4

=item mysql

Version 4 of mysql is required for the otter
database because it makes use of transactions by
using InnoDB tables.  The pipeline database uses
MyISAM tables for speed.

=item acedb

A recent version of acedb is needed.  The B<tace>
binary is used.

=item Perl

Perl version 5.6.0 is required, plus the
following modules available from B<CPAN> (not an
exhaustive list):

=over 4

=item CGI

=item DBD-mysql

=item DBI

=item TermReadKey

=item Digest-MD5

=item MIME-Base64

=item Tk

=item URI

=item libnet

=item libwww-perl

=item LWP

=item LWP::Authen::Wsse

=item Crypt::SSLeay

=item Config::IniFiles

=item Proc::ProcessTable

=item Ace

=back

=item Perl modules from CVS

Sanger, Ensembl and Bioperl modules (not all on
CPAN):

=over 4

=item ensembl

From cvs.sanger.ac.uk:/nfs/ensembl/cvsroot

=item ensembl-otter

From cvs.sanger.ac.uk:/nfs/ensembl/cvsroot

=item bioperl version 0.7.2

http://www.bioperl.org/DIST/bioperl-0.7.2.tar.gz

=item sanger PerlModules

email B<jgrg@sanger.ac.uk>

=back

=back





